(rock music)
CSS Grid is kinda hard to visualize,
because we're essentially making these things called
columns and tracks and rows, and gaps,
and they're not elements in themselves,
like most things else in HTML,
we're able to inspect element and change the color
of it or add a border,
but with CSS Grid we're making these things
that are sorta untouchable, so,
what we need to do is use dev tools
in order to get a better idea of what's actually going on.
So open up 04 Dev Tools,
and I've got the starter files open up in here.
And this is just our standard div class container,
we got our 10 items in here,
and I went ahead and display grid on the container.
Now, what I want you to do is to
inspect element and in your Firefox dev tools
you are going to see a tab here called layout.
It doesn't matter which item you've actually selected,
but, actually you can click on the container,
you can see that there's this little grid here,
and you can either click that,
and that will turn on and off the grid highlighting,
or you can go over to the layout tab,
and you see that it will automatically
compile all of the different grids
that are in here.
Now again, the one that we have here is
the container, the only reason all these other items
are showing up is because I've also
displayed grid them in our base CSS, so,
no need to worry about those just for now.
Now what we can do is go ahead and turn on
the visual grid that we have there,
and you'll see right away
that we've got some lines over-lapping
on top of our grid.
And this is going to help us understand
where the tracks are, where the columns are,
where all the different rows are.
Now there's a couple settings that we can have here,
we can first turn on the line numbers,
and you'll likely always want to have those on.
Because when we get into placing items,
that's gonna be really helpful.
Area names, you can turn that on or off.
We don't have any area names yet,
we're gonna be learning that in coming videos.
And then finally you can extend the lines indefinitely,
so if you want to extend them white off.
Sometimes they're a little bit hard to see
over top of what you've got,
and you can change the color of the items here.
Just click on that.
I've found that if you make them black
that's the easiest to see in all types of color,
obviously unless your grid is black.
You can change it up.
One other little tip that I've found
in order to be able to see them,
especially when we get into what do these mean,
is I turn on the OSX accessibility zooming,
so I could just do zoom in and out,
wee-ooo, zoom in and out nice and quick like that.
Good, so let's actually go ahead and start
making some columns.
We'll leave this open,
and we'll sorta see how it adjusts in real time.
So let's go and make some columns first.
You can see that we really only have one column.
So say grid, template, column.
And we'll have 100 pixels,
and 200 pixels, and see what we've got there.
Good, so now you see that we have our first column,
our second column, and all of our rows
are automatically being put in there.
So first of all, one thing we need to note is that,
how come that we see three?
Well you need to know that the columns
and our rows, which are collectively referred to,
what are they called?
Tracks, they're all called tracks.
Tracks are numbered not by the actual column itself,
but by the lines that start and stop them.
So you're always gonna have one more number
than you actually do column or rows.
So, we can start at one, go to two, and go to three.
Now you'll see that we have a bunch of
actually different types of dots and lines
and solid lines showing up here,
and actually if we add some grid gap
of 20px you'll see that we also have it.
So what do these values actually mean?
It's gonna be helpful to sorta
hold these values in our head.
Well, I made you another really nice diagram,
if you open up today there's gonna be linemeetings.png.
Open that up,
and you're going to see that
the solid line, what that means is that
that is the start and the stop of the explicit grid,
and we don't know what that means yet,
but we're gonna be doing it in just a second.
The obviously the dashed diagonal lines
mean the gap.
The dash lines means that it is an explicit track.
So if I zoom really close in here,
you see that these dark dash lines
are going vertically,
and that's because we have explicitly created
an actual column, right?
Because we created a column here,
and we said one will be 100,
one will be 200, so that fact that they are
dark dashed lines show us that we made those.
On the flip side,
we didn't create any type of rows here.
They've all been created themselves.
So if we zoom right in, you'll see that they are dotted.
So I like to call these long ones dashed,
and these ware ones dotted.
And you see that they're a little bit more faint,
they're a little bit see through.
And that means that they are implicit.
Again, we'll go more into this,
but that means that they have been created
without us saying so,
because the browser has created them.
So, we'll come back to that quite a bit more,
but it's helpful to know that
all of these lines do mean something,
and having them open in your dev tools
is going to be very helpful.
So that's it for now,
let's jump into the next video,
which is actually understand the explicit
and the implicit tracks in Grid.